Update Ideal Staking rate info (#5158)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-DOT-inflation.md

---
id: learn-DOT-inflation
title: DOT Inflation
sidebar_label: DOT Inflation
description: Tokenomics of Polkadot's Native Token DOT.
keywords: [token, DOT, inflation]
slug: ../learn-DOT-inflation
---

import RPC from "./../../components/RPC-Connection";

{{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }} is an inflationary token. There is no maximum

> number of {{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }}. On the

Reviewer: Removing the sentence as it might mislead people into thinking that the supply can be infinite. The 10% cap on the annual inflation bounds the growth of DOT token in a predictable and bounded way.

```suggestion
{{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }} is an inflationary token. On the
```

{{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} network, inflation is
{{ polkadot: [set to be 10% annually](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/blob/756ccc35e93d1a78e3c71a0e67ae4da5f1d09f69/runtime/polkadot/src/lib.rs#L576), :polkadot }}
{{ kusama: [set to be 10% annually](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/blob/756ccc35e93d1a78e3c71a0e67ae4da5f1d09f69/runtime/kusama/src/lib.rs#L535), :kusama }}
with validator rewards being a function of the amount staked and the remainder going to the

> treasury.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is distributed as staking rewards based on the amount staked vs. ideal staking rate, and the remainder goes to the treasury.
```

{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="query.balances.totalIssuance" defaultValue={12230666300429914781} filter="humanReadable"/> (Over 1.2 Billion DOT). :polkadot }}
{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="query.balances.totalIssuance" defaultValue={12619256191792480093} filter="humanReadable"/> (Over 12 Million KSM). :kusama }}

:::

According to the inflation model, this would suggest that if you do not use your
{{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }} for staking, your tokens currently dilute
over time. **Token inflation is not a forever fixed value, and inflation can be set lower in the
future through [on-chain governance](./learn-polkadot-opengov.md).**

It is important to understand that inflation is used to incentivize network participants and to grow
the network, especially in the early phases. Ending inflation too soon could limit growth while
ending inflation too late (after the ecosystem has reached a mature stage) could dilute the value of
your currency with no further growth for the ecosystem.
{{ polkadot: Polkadot :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama :kusama }} is a young network, and it is

> currently in a growing stage and has yet to reach maturity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is essential to understand that the primary objective of {{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }} inflation is to incentivize network participants through Nominated Proof of Staking (NPoS) and to grow
the network through funding the on-chain treasury. There is an opportunity cost of keeping the {{ polkadot: DOT :polkadot }}{{ kusama: KSM :kusama }} tokens idle with the current inflation model as the tokens get diluted over time. Economics and game theory suggest that setting an ideal inflation rate is essential for incentivizing the network participants as well as the growth of the network, and any deviation from it can have negative effects.  Reducing the inflation rate could limit growth while
increasing the inflation rate could break the incentive model of the token. Hence,
**token inflation rate is not a forever fixed value, and inflation can be updated in the future through [on-chain governance](./learn-polkadot-opengov.md)** based on thorough tokenomics research.

```

---
id: learn-DOT-inflation

> title: DOT Inflation

Reviewer: As this doc is conditionally rendered, perhaps change the title to Inflation Rate or something similar?
